good morning Hank it's Tuesday this
video is an open letter to professional
youtubers but it's also for anyone who
wants to understand the challenges of
the fraught career of professional
influencing okay fourth this did not
happen because you work harder than
anyone else or because you are more
talented you are talented and you do
work hard but you have also been
fortunate you're fortunate to have
high-speed Internet and access to
editing software and you've also gotten
lucky along the way in innumerable ways
luck does not nullify hard work but hard
work also does not nullify block v you
are a person those who love your work
will naturally be inclined to think of
you as more than a person which can be
intoxicating it's nice to hear that
you're a literal God or the best
fortnight or vlogger or whatever noun is
currently being personalised but there
will also be people who think you're
less than human who say that your
literal trash we don't talk about this
much because it can seem like
ingratitude but receiving online hate
can be really scary and painful and I'm
sorry if you have to live with it in my
experience it's really important to find
places where you can be a person whether
that's an anonymous reddit account or
god forbid offline because otherwise you
can start to believe both those who
think you're more than a person and
those who think you're less than one
lastly as my brother likes to say
diversify your identity in this world so
much of your life can become your job
your friends and family can be involved
in your job when you take a walk you're
doing your job if you Instagram it your
life and work can become so completely
intertwined that you stop thinking of
yourself as for instance John Green
person husband father AFC Wimbledon
sponsor avowed Hufflepuff etc and begin
to think of yourself as just John Green
youtuber the purpose of this video is
not to ridicule the crash course world
history channel it's not to ridicule the
vlogbrothers it's not to suggest that we
shouldn't take them seriously if
anything I'd like to first insist that
the audience take this channel and the
type of misinformation it spreads much
more seriously than they ever had before
and then to condemn it and turn their
backs on it the first time I ever
encountered this YouTube channel is
quite memorable to me because at that
time I had very little contact with
YouTube I'd been living and doing
research in places like Cambodia where
YouTube just
barely existed the internet existed I
used the internet for things like email
but a high bandwidth application like
YouTube at that time was more or less
unthinkable unless you had some very
good reason to try to use it and it
occurred to me this is now about six
years ago when I was first looking at
YouTube and seeing the kind of range of
content it occurred to me to check who
in the world today was making an effort
to talk about the history of the
revolution in Haiti and right at that
time they had indeed uploaded Haitian
revolutions crash course world history
number 30 now as I get older in this
life I feel ever more keenly that the
most precious and rare gift is to be
paid to do research when I was a much
younger man I was paid very briefly to
do research on the history of Haiti
specifically the history of the Haitian
revolutions and I threw myself into that
opportunity with gusto I did ten times
more research than I needed to I did 100
times more research than I need to
within the remit of the very simple
assignment that was given and the
research I did was ultimately for a
museum of the African Diaspora and a
very very tiny portion of that museum
discussed the history of the revolution
Haiti in watching that video now
approximately six years ago I had the
horrifying feeling as the minutes ticked
by that I knew infinitely more about
this topic than the people making the
video that I cared infinitely more about
video and then there was a much deeper
sense of horror when I realized the
extent to which people watching this
video we're going to be very much misled
very much misinformed and they would not
in any way be aware of how misinformed
they were
I've watched very few of the crash
course world history videos since then
but I have always made it a point to
only watch their videos in areas of my
own expertise areas where I have done
considerable research so I can tell you
I can raise the red flag there videos on
the history of China are garbage there
videos on the history of Buddhism are
garbage there videos on the history of
Asia all that I have seen our garbage
and I have to be honest with you they're
dangerous why is it that we only an
exclusively care when people lie about
history in the context of World War two
why is that the one and only topic that
the world becomes excited about the
history of China also deals with the
deaths and mass murder of millions of
people at a time in the period of Mao
Zedong many tens of millions definitely
more than thirty million the history of
Cambodia the history of Indonesia even
many of these countries there are
chapters just as grave just as decisive
with just as shocking a body count
but even moving beyond that I admit for
example the history of Haiti is in some
ways small in scale but it's a microcosm
of everything that was wrong with the
world slave trade everything well that
was wrong with both the old Empire of
France and with the failed ideals of the
French Revolution and the regime of
Napoleon that came thereafter we can
learn a tremendous amount even from
studying a chapter of history like the
history of haiti haitian revolution it's
a tremendous instructive value and it
really does hurt me to see it
misrepresented and portrayed in the way
that it is we have to take the crash
course YouTube channel seriously because
each of these videos reaches millions of
people Haiti this must be one of their
least popular videos is 2.3 million if
you look up the videos on Buddhism
history of Asia this year China India
and so on and so forth you're getting
into five million ten
huge huge numbers I've been a critic of
many university professors and the
authors of books reasonably well some
books that were covered in newspapers
and I can say that probably none of my
university professors ever reached an
audience of so many millions of people
the position that the vlogbrothers and
crash course history have taken it
demands to be taken seriously and also
demands to be terror interrogated
criticized and discarded very seriously
if someone were to ask me which is a
better source for the history of Haiti
for the history of China for this tree
of India which is a better source this
YouTube channel or Wikipedia Wikipedia
has people contributing to it who
actually do the research and who
actually care the crash course History
Channel has none and point two on
Wikipedia when errors are made other
authors other contributors point out
those errors and they get corrected tell
me can tell me in the comments for this
video do you know of any example on in
their whole empire the crash course
YouTube channel the puppets do you know
of any example in which these two men
realizing that they were wrong realizing
they were speaking out of blithe
ignorance and after a very casual they
don't even read one book on most of
these topics for making a video let
alone a comparison of multiple sources
do you know of any example where they
went back deleted a video or amended a
video added new information deleted
errors in which they made corrections
because Wikipedia as badly flawed as it
may be is open to Corrections every day
people like to disrespect my truth but
the fact is that you know my name is I
don't know